Hello and welcome back and in today's
tutorial we will be looking at
duplicates and joints. And by that we
mean what happens when the column that
we're joining on has duplicate values in
one of the tables. In today's example
we'll be looking at two tables, table A
and table B. Table A lists orders that
were conducted for some shop.
It specifies the region and their status
so whether they were unpaid or whether
they were paid. Table B list the same
orders but an itemized description of
those orders so, it lists the order
number, the item that was sold within
that order and the sales that were
generated through the sale of that item
and as you can see orders in table B can
be duplicated because some orders
consists of several items for example
order number one consists of a chair and
desk and so we're going to be looking at
an example of an inner joint between
these two tables. So basically we want to
take the order number from table A and
use that to join table A to table B. Also
an order number so basically we want to
connect the status of the order weather
was paid or unpaid to the item and the
sales of the order and currently this
information is contained within two
separate tables. We want to bring it
together. From this image, you can see
that when we join the two tables on the
order number, there will be two matches
in the second table to order number one.
There will be one match in the second
table to order number two. There will be
three matches to order number three in
the second table and there's no matches
for order number four so because this is
an inner join this row will be
discarded from the final result and what
will happen now is as you can see
there's less rows in the table and left
then on the table the right. So every
time there's a multiple match, the tear
the rows that have been matched multiple
times will be replicated. So duplicated or
triplicated and so on. So in this
particular case, the final table will
look like this.
And as you can see here some rows of the
table on the left have been duplicated
to match the number of rows in the table
on the right and that's completely
normal.
So this is the way the final table will
look in our output. So that's what
happens when there are duplicate values
in the column that we're joining on. I
hope you enjoy today's tutorial, and I
look forward to seeing you next time.